
# Uncertain values from theoretical distributions

It is common in the scientific literature to encounter uncertain data values
which are reported as following a specific distribution. Perhaps the authors
report the mean and standard deviation of a value stated to follow a
normal distribution. `UncertainData` makes it easy to represent such values!


## Supported distributions

Uncertain values may be constructed from theoretical distribution using
any of the following distributions (more distributions will be added in the
future!).

``` julia tab="Uniform"
# Uncertain value generated by a uniform distribution on [-5.0, 5.1].
uv = UncertainValue(Uniform, -5.0, 5.1)
```

``` julia tab="Normal"
# Uncertain value generated by a normal distribution with parameters μ = -2 and
# σ = 0.5.
uv = UncertainValue(Normal, -2, 0.5)
```

``` julia tab="Gamma"
# Uncertain value generated by a gamma distribution with parameters α = 2.2
# and θ = 3.
uv = UncertainValue(Gamma, 2.2, 3)
```

``` julia tab="Beta"
# Uncertain value generated by a beta distribution with parameters α = 1.5
# and β = 3.5
uv = UncertainValue(Beta, 1.5, 3.5)
```

``` julia tab="BetaPrime"
# Uncertain value generated by a beta prime distribution with parameters α = 1.7
# and β = 3.2
uv = UncertainValue(Beta, 1.7, 3.2)
```

``` julia tab="Fréchet"
# Uncertain value generated by a Fréchet distribution with parameters α = 2.1
# and θ = 4
uv = UncertainValue(Beta, 2.1, 4)
```

``` julia tab="Binomial"
# Uncertain value generated by binomial distribution with n = 28 trials and
# probability p = 0.2 of success in individual trials.
uv = UncertainValue(Binomial, 28, 0.2)
```

``` julia tab="BetaBinomial"
# Creates an uncertain value generated by a beta-binomial distribution with
# n = 28 trials, and parameters α = 1.5 and β = 3.5.
uv = UncertainValue(BetaBinomial, 28, 3.3, 4.4)
```

## Constructors

In this package, there are two constructors that creates uncertain values
represented by theoretical distributions. The order the parameters are provided
to the constructor is the same as for constructing the equivalent distributions
in `Distributions.jl`.

### Two-parameter distributions

```julia
UncertainValue(d::Type{D}, a<:Number, b<:Number)
    where {D<:Distributions.Distribution}
```

Creates an uncertain value consisting of a two-parameter distribution of type
`d` with parameters `a` and `b`. Precisely what  `a` and `b` are depends on
which distribution is provided.

- `UncertainValue(Normal, μ, σ)` creates an `UncertainScalarNormallyDistributed` instance.
- `UncertainValue(Uniform, lower, upper)` creates an `UncertainScalarUniformlyDistributed` instance.
- `UncertainValue(Beta, α, β)` creates an `UncertainScalarBetaDistributed` instance.
- `UncertainValue(BetaPrime, α, β)` creates an `UncertainScalarBetaPrimeDistributed` instance.
- `UncertainValue(Gamma, α, θ)` creates an `UncertainScalarGammaDistributed` instance.
- `UncertainValue(Frechet, α, θ)` creates an `UncertainScalarFrechetDistributed` instance.
- `UncertainValue(Binomial, n, p)` creates an `UncertainScalarBinomialDistributed` instance.


### Three-parameter distributions

```julia
UncertainValue(d::Type{D}, a<:Number, b<:Number, c<:Number)
    where {D<:Distributions.Distribution}
```

Creates an uncertain value consisting of a three-parameter distribution of
type `d` with parameters `a`, `b` and `c`. Precisely what `a`, `b` and `c` are
depends on which distribution is provided.

- `UncertainValue(BetaBinomial, n, α, β)` creates an `UncertainScalarBetaBinomialDistributed` instance.
